## Self-Driving-Car

This project demostrates the use of a genetic algorithm to train a neural network.
Hosted at: https://samudramitra.github.io/Self-Driving-Car/

# Origin Story:

This project was built out of the idea to create something which the most basic web development tech stack, yet demonstrates creativity and ingenuity at the same time.

This is made out of plain and simple html, css and vanilla js. Without any js libraries

The neural network shown on the right side of the webpage takes the offsets of the rays of the sensor of the car and applies linear functions only to get the output layer, which determine the controls of the car.

# How not to train a neural network built in vanilla js:

The training of a neural network always requires training dataset conventionally.
In this case, it would be screenshots of the webpage and the appropriate controls to be pressed at that time.
This is not only extremely hard to implement using only vanilla javascript, but also weak. Weak because it lacks ingenuity and is shackled by the conventional approach to machine learning. This takes us back to the boring realm of traditional machine learning and training using OpenCV,YOLO, gradient descent, and a lot more stuff which you probably know better than me.

# Giga chad way of training neural networks:

Instead, this takes inspiration from Naruto Uzumaki's Shadow Clone jutsu (Nerds call this a basic Genetic Algorithm). What we do is, we spawn hundreds of cars at the same time with random weights and biases. These then go through the traffic and one of them is a bit luckier than the others, we use the save button (🗃️) to save it.
Now, this will act as the base of all the cars of the next generation, which are spawned when we reload the page.
This is the second generation, and all these are offsprings of the best car of the first generation. So the average performance of this generation is better than that of the previous generation. Now, the best car of this generation, which has been generated by tweaking the weights of the previous generation, might perform better than it's parent (the best car of the last generation). We save it again and reload to see the generations progressinga nd the cars getting better at steering past the traffic.

# Changing parameters:

In the end, if we change any parameters like ray Length, ray Count, etc, the entire thing is reset and we again start from generation 1.
